After Sangar release sequencing machine in 1975, biology start getting in touch into computational feild. Any specie on earch can be describe a four alphabets (ATCG) called nucleoides. For example human is made up of over four billions ATCG chars. Any people on earch has different sequences but almost similar because we get random combination of father and mother's sequences. Among four billion of sequences of human genome, only five percents are known to be used, while the rest of the sequence are possibily junk. Alought monkey looks a lot different from human, in genomic level, the different between the two is only 98%. Analysing these seequence among species is very useful to biology.

The problem is it these sequence data are huge. If you haven't seen DNA sequences (... .faa.gz), please download one of the file from a public database here. It doesn't make sense just looking at the ATCG sequence, thought looks cool in the movie 'Matrix'. A powerful visualizing tools is require to make sense out of these huge sequence. In addition to DNA, another component of cell is protein. Unlike DNA sequence, protein sequence is make up of 20 amino acids represented as GPAVLIMCFYWHKRQNEDST. Any three DNA neuclotide has equivalent one amino acid. For example  GGC in DNA sequence is G in protein sequence, CCT is equivalent to P and so on. A cell use DNA sequence for storing perment information (like harddrive) and protein sequence for operational usage (RAM). Before comversion from DNA to protein, a cell need to convert DNA to RNA and then RNA to protein. RNA is the same as DNA code except, T becomes U. There is four character in RNA. That is all in cell and the rest are small chemical molecule like water, ketone, ions, etc. You might heard of enzyme, haemoglobin, chromosome etc, all these are nothing more than a protein or a group of proteins and DNA.

Since understanding life in molecular level is huge task even for big country. Most project are carried out in coloboration with internation effort. One famus project is 'Human Genome Project' finished on 2002. As the name suggest, it is sequence of human. My boss, Todd Taylor is main PI for sequence chromosome 21. People think that if we knew all the sequence, we will know the life is made of. But it was not. There is no new drug or medical improvement after knowing the human genome. The DNA sequences are so encryptic is researcher are just starting to understand. Viualization of these data is one of the key requirement for daily use for biologist.
Key bioinformatics algorithm

There are several handard of computation technique (algorithm) for comparison of multiple sequences of different species, categorizing, clustering, correlation with other observed data. You can find most of these algorithms in NCBI C++ toolkits, Bioperl and Biopython. There are few others, but mainly these three cover all algorithms used by the molecular biologist. You will see there are few GUI components. They are commercial! Good for us, right? We don't put all of these algorithm into our software. In fact about 5 % of them, i think. I will give the detial later.